---
title: 5
---

Metafizzy is [five years old](/blog/beginning/). That's old. Old enough that it was past-due time to do an an overhaul: brand new site, [brand new brand](/blog/fizzy-bear-branded).

You would think, after all this time, I would finally have it figured out. I know I want to keep working on Metafizzy. I feel better doing this job than any other job I've had before. But I'm not certain what's next.

Five years for a business is no small feat. But when I put it in those terms, _five years_, there's something underwhelming about it. Metafizzy is still just me, working on my own projects. Shouldn't I be managing a team of people? Shouldn't there be more products? How come everything feels just as small as when I started?

I don't have answers just yet, but I'm now thinking about these things. Hitting one milestone gets you thinking about the next milestone. It's a bigger timescale.

The weird thing is, what I do — front-end development — feels even more niche than when Metafizzy first started. Front-end widgets have been dropped for new shiny things: frameworks and build tools. But front-end UI libraries were never "solved." The same issues that widgets faced five years ago are still prevalent today: inconsistent APIs, poor documentation, lack of standards, and so on. On top of that, UI libraries have to fight to support the multitudes of frameworks, package managers, and build tools. Wasn't it supposed to be better by now?

So the good news is there's plenty of work to be done.

I don't know what the next five years holds. Will a kid getting her first smart phone today even use websites five years from now? Maybe everything will run in Minecraft. But, if anything, the years have taught me that there's always more time to solve the problems you have today.

## Our story thus far...

+ December 2010: [Metafizzy begins](/blog/beginning)
+ January 2011: [first version of imagesLoaded released](/blog/imagesloaded-plugin/)
+ February 2011: [Isotope v1 released](/blog/isotope-v1dot0-released)
+ May 2011: [Masonry v2 released](https://twitter.com/desandro/status/73354879707516928)
+ December 2011: [Support service removed](/blog/removing-support-service/)
+ May 2012: [Logotype by James T. Edmondson](/blog/logotype-james-edmondson/)
+ April 2013: [Packery v1 released](/blog/packery-released/)
+ May 2013: [imagesLoaded v3 released](/blog/imagesloaded-v3/)
+ June 2013: [Masonry v3 released](https://twitter.com/desandro/status/345495870743142401)
+ March 2014: [Isotope v2 released](/blog/isotope-v2-released/)
+ January 2015: [I start Metafizzy full-time](/blog/full-time-fizzy/)
+ February 2015: [Flickity v1 released](/blog/flickity-v1-released/)
+ December 2015: 5 year anniversary! New site, new brand
